template: conf.2015.html

# North America 2015

Join us for a three day event to explore the art and science of documentation.
You can look forward to learning more about documentation systems, tech writing theory, and information delivery.
Past talks have also covered such diverse topics as typography, empathy, and [Wabi-sabi][wabisabi].

The main event takes place from May 18-19 (Monday and Tuesday) from 9am to 6pm.
We will return to the historic [Crystal Ballroom][crystal-ballroom],
centrally located in the heart of Portland.

[crystal-ballroom]: http://www.mcmenamins.com/CrystalBallroom
[wabisabi]: http://?

## Events

Write the Docs is more than a conference.
Each year we have a bunch of events so that people can get to know each other better.
This year we're expanding them into a full third day of fun.
Sunday's events are optional, but we recommend you come into town Saturday or early Sunday to participate.

This year, those events will include:

* Hike (Saturday Afternoon) - Enjoy the majestic beauty of Portland with this walk in the woods.
* Writing Day (Sunday Daytime) - Get together and *write the docs* with your fellow documentarians.
  This is a great opportunity to learn from others and share your knowledge.
  Document your own projects, or contribute to an open source project such as Wordpress or Mozilla Developer Network.
* Conference Reception (Sunday Night) - Come early, get your badge and get to know folks.
* Official Party (Monday Night) - Wind down and talk about the days talks in a relaxed and friendly environment

## Subscribe

We will be announcing more information soon, including the call for proposals
and pricing.
If you wish to get more information as it comes out, sign up for [our mailing list][mailing-list] or follow us on Twitter at [@writethedocs][twitter].

<div id="mc_embed_signup">
<form action="http://writethedocs.us6.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=94377ea46d8b176a11a325d03&amp;id=dcf0ed349b" method="post" id="mc-embedded-subscribe-form" name="mc-embedded-subscribe-form" class="validate" target="_blank" novalidate="">
<div class="mc-field-group input-append">
<input placeholder="Email Address" value="" name="EMAIL" class="required email" id="mce-EMAIL" type="email">
<input value="Subscribe" name="subscribe" id="mc-embedded-subscribe" class="btn" type="submit">
</div>
<div id="mce-responses" class="clear">
<div class="response" id="mce-error-response" style="display:none"></div>
<div class="response" id="mce-success-response" style="display:none"></div>
</div>
</form>
</div>

[twitter]: https://twitter.com/writethedocs
[mailing-list]: http://?
